squirrel's teeth never stop growing
but the animals wear them down by
gnawing on nuts and other hard foods
the front of the rodent's teeth is
actually orange
it's because they're covered in special
tough enamel bet you're glad you don't
have that to deal with
some bird species don't mind munching on
chili peppers
that's because they can't feel the heat
peppers burn your mouth because they
contain a special chemical
capsaicin but birds don't have the taste
buds needed to feel its effects
the rhino's horn is made of hair or at
least the same protein that makes up
your hair and nails
this protein is called keratin such a
horn is kind of unique
since other animals have horns with a
bony center
the woodpecker can peck the wood 20
times per second
this pace is almost too high for the
human eye to notice
how much wood would a woodpecker peck if
a woodpecker could peck wood
the number of pecs often reaches a total
of eight thousand to twelve thousand
a day a starfish does have eyes
one on the end of each of its arms these
eyes are light-sensitive groups of cells
frogs don't need to drink water instead
they have an area known as the drinking
patch
it's on their bellies and thighs they
use it to absorb water directly through
the skin
well that could save some time most
caterpillar species have around 4 000
muscles in their body
and almost 250 of them are in the head
alone
christmas tree worms are much more
beautiful than you can imagine
but even though the pines look awesome
two-thirds of the worms body
is hidden in a calcium carbonite tube
and the point of this is i don't have
one
[Music]
narwhals famous tusks are actually their
teeth that are kind of turned inside out
these unicorns of the sea have just two
teeth
and in males one of them grows right
through their upper lip
unlike your teeth this one is tough
inside and sensitive and soft on the
outside
the anti-eater doesn't have teeth but
it's not a problem
this creature has a super long tongue
this tongue helps the animal lap up more
than 35
000 termites and ants every day now
that's one way to lick hunger
the flea can jump more than 200 times
their body length
if humans had such an ability they would
jump as high as the empire state
building
the red eyed tree frog's eggs can hatch
earlier if they
sense their environment isn't safe small
animals with fast metabolism
see in slow-mo this helps them escape
larger creatures
koala's fingerprints are very very
similar to the human ones
sometimes these animals fingerprints
even get confused at crime scenes
probably in australia the hippos sweat
is pink
and not exactly sweat it's a reddish
oily fluid
its function is to not cool the body but
to moisturize the skin
and protect it this fluid also functions
as an
antibiotic so you get sunburned or cut
you can smear a hippo all over you polar
bear skin
is black and the hairs of their coat are
hollow and almost see-through
these animals have fur growing even on
the bottom of their paws
this gives them a better grip on ice and
protects against coal
species of tarantulas some of the
largest spiders in the world
can live without food for more than two
years
i still think they're creepy platypuses
close their eyes while kissing
i mean swimming they have special folds
of skin
covering their ears and eyes they
prevent water from getting inside
these animals nostrils also have a
watertight seal
emus can't walk backwards but scientists
aren't sure why
these flightless birds are the only ones
that have calf muscles
emus can sprint really fast they can
also travel long distances
but they can't back up crocodiles can't
move their tongue
because it's attached to the mouth roof
it keeps the throat closed
and protects the animal's airway water
snakes dolphins whales
alligators crocodiles and turtles can
drown
it'll happen if they stay under water
for too long these animals can't breathe
in the water
they can just hold their breath for a
very long time
only one species of birds can fly
backwards that's hummingbirds
hey go talk to the emu these tiny birds
can also beat their
wings up to 80 times per second
despite what elephant shrews look like
these small animals are more closely
related to elephants than shrews
maybe that's why they have their
trademark trunk like noses
elephant shrews use them to munch on
insects
true enough cats as well as other
felines
can't taste sweet things they don't have
the taste buds needed for that
too bad more for me flamingos can only
eat with their heads
upside down that's why their lower bill
is massive
and their upper bill isn't fixed such an
arrangement is perfect for
upside down feeding but it's the
opposite of what other birds have
it's not easy being pink
tiger skin is as striped as their fur
that's all i have to say about that when
two cans sleep
they curl into pretty tight balls these
birds can turn their
head so that their tail covers their
head and the beak
rests on the back so yeah they have a
ball
the ostrich has some of the largest eyes
in the animal kingdom
they're more massive than a bird's brain
each eye is as big as a billiard ball
all clownfish get born male but
in some circumstances they can turn into
females
this change is irreversible
unlike most fish when sea horses mate
they do it for life
even cuter when the mates travel they
move side by side
and often hold on to each other's tails
the male usually gets stuck
schlepping the luggage termites never
sleep
they don't need to recharge their
batteries but they can eat 24 hours a
day
seven days a week on your house
the sloth needs up to two weeks to
digest its food
hey take your time no hurry nothing on
the schedule
dogs nose prints can be used for their
identification
they are similar to human fingerprints
and unique for each animal
owls don't have eyeballs instead they
have eye tubes that don't move in the
eye sockets
penguins don't have external ears but
their hearing is especially sharp
especially when they're on the lookout
for polar bears
shh let's not tell them jellyfish are up
to 98
water that's why when they get washed
ashore their bodies can evaporate into
the air after just a few hours
if a traffic jam happens underwater an
alligator will always give way to a
manatee
nice manners grizzly bears have such a
strong bite
that they can crush a bowling ball so
it's smart just to let them win
giant pandas aren't picky about their
sleeping spots
they usually fall asleep wherever they
are in most cases
right on the forest floor the giant
panda's newborn cubs are tiny
they weigh like a small cup of coffee
and are smaller than a mouse
the red hand fish can walk along the
ocean floor
with the help of its hands but of course
they are not hands
but evolved fins really cats don't
usually
meow at each other a study has shown the
felines use this way of communication
mostly to get attention from us humans
and it works
sloths can't shiver it's not that
they're too busy digesting that two week
old meal
their fur is sometimes covered with
algae and when they get too hot or too
cold
their metabolism shuts down during the
hard
times immortal jellyfish transform
themselves back into their younger state
once they reach the stage when they're
nothing but a blob of tissue
like me these creatures start to grow
again and this process can apparently
repeat again and again the closest
living relatives of the t-rex are
chickens and ostriches
don't turn your back the moray eel has
another set of jaws that can extend from
his throat
first the main jaws close around an
unlucky sea creature
then the additional set grabs the eel's
future meal
with backward pointing razor sharp teeth
and after that
the captured animal gets dragged back
into the eel's throat i just lost my
appetite
some species of snails have hairy shells
thanks to these hairs snails can better
stick to wet surfaces
when humpback whales hunt they often
gather in a group
and apply a bubble net tactic to catch
their food
the bubbles don't let the schools of
fish get away
snow leopards can't roar like other
large felines
it has to do with their less developed
vocal cords
but these animals can meow growl
hiss and even purr
not to drift away from their group while
napping
sea otters hold hands they can also
entangle themselves in giant seaweed
for the same purpose hey it kelps
lions are often called the king of the
prairie
i thought it was the king of the jungle
and still up to 90 percent of all the
hunting in the pride
is done by the females the males are in
charge of protecting the territory
and the pride members and they make the
delicious potato salad known as
hakuna matata cats are famous for their
uncanny ability to move their ears
all because kitties have 32 muscles in
each outer ear
some shark species can glow in the dark
unfortunately
only other sharks can see this greenish
glimmer
you have up to eight thousand taste buds
but your pooch has just a bit over
fifteen hundred
the blue jay can imitate other birds its
favorite is a hawks cough
the blue jay uses it to scare away other
birds from its territory
slow lorries are insanely cute and just
as treacherous
they're the only known venomous primates
they have a gland in the crook of their
inner arm
it secretes toxins that can cause
unpleasant consequences in people
the heart of beast has an amazing
evasion tactic
to run away from other animals they move
in a zigzag pattern
bottlenose dolphins have names for one
another those are specific whistles
hey bob hey charlie hey dolly hey boys
and thanks for all the fish
giraffes have long and i mean it black
tongues
scientists suppose this color might
protect the tongue from getting
sunburned
well that's all i got see ya